what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose in this
video I'm gonna be answering the
question what is the Yuka test and how
can you best prepare for it I'll leave
timestamps to all the different sections
of this video so that you guys can skip
around and click to whatever part of the
video that you want to see if you don't
know who I am my name is Nasir I'm a
second year medical student at King's
College London if you guys want to see
more you can on medical school related
content from me feel free to like this
video and subscribe to my channel
I took the UK cat exam in 2013 and then
again in 2017 where I managed to score
in the 99th percentile I managed to
score so well using a bunch of tips and
tricks that I've accumulated over the
years
and I've taken that information and
converted it into a video series here on
YouTube to help you guys perform hello
[Music]
okay to help you guys score as best as
you possibly can on the you can't test
this video is sponsored by modifying an
online you can't question bank with over
10,000 questions and eight full mock
tests more on that later now before we
get into this video I want to say a big
hello to everyone from New Zealand on
Australia if you're a future medical or
dental student there then you might know
that the entrance exam has been changed
from the you Matt to the you cat and
that's probably why you're watching this
video so let's start off with the very
first thing what is the you can test the
you cat stands for university clinical
aptitude test and what that means is
that it's a test that is trying to gauge
your characteristics and abilities to
perform as a doctor in the future and
that you can't does this through five
different sections that I'm gonna cover
later on in this video
the you cat is the new name for the
previously known UK cat so the you cat
is the exact same test as the UK cat
it's the same in the structure in the
timing in the content and everything
else the only thing that's changed is
its name hence all the videos that I
made last year about preparing and
studying for the UK cats are going to
apply to the U cat this year as well and
you can find those videos scattered on
my channel somewhere here and I'll put
links in the description as well so why
should you take the you can't exam you
take the you can't test if you are a
high school student who wants to apply
to dental or medical school in the UK
Austria
and New Zealand so if you're applying to
one of these schools then you're gonna
want to take the you can't test another
question that I get asked quite often is
when should I take the you can't test if
you are going to be applying to UK
medical or dental schools then you can
take the test at any time between July
1st and October 2nd if you're going to
be taking the test in Australia or New
Zealand then you can only take the test
in the month of July
now the UK test is to be taken by
students who want to apply to medical or
dental school in the summer before their
final year of high school so let's say
you're starting your final year of high
school this year in September of 2019
then you want to take the you can't test
this summer so what are the five
different sections that are tested on
the UK test so the first one of these
sections is called verbal reasoning
otherwise known as the English section
this section assesses your ability to
read through a passage quickly and
gather all the important information on
bigger concepts and then use that
information to answer subsequent
questions decision making this is the
most recent section to be introduced to
the UK test this section assesses your
ability to follow logic make deductions
and sort of make the correct judgments
based on information that they give you
this can often be based on sometimes
confusing information so I think it's
the hardest one to wrap your head around
next is the dreaded quantitative
reasoning section or the maths section
this section assesses your ability to
understand numbers presented either in a
graphical or visual form or as numbers
in a data table or within a passage and
then use those numbers to perform
calculations quickly don't get scared
off by the math section they're not
gonna ask you anything to do with
calculus or integration or anything like
that all of the math tested in this
section is quite simple and quite basic
abstract reasoning my favorite section
tests your ability to find patterns in
not so obvious places and ways you will
be presented with a series of objects or
shapes and you're gonna have to try and
figure out what is the pattern or the
common element that connects the
different shapes these kinds of
questions are likely questions that
you've never tackled before in your life
you've probably never seen anything like
them and so this section takes the most
to get used to but once you've done
enough questions it becomes really
really fun and then finally we have
situational judgment this is commonly
regarded as the easiest sex
or the one that you need to study least
or a section where you kind of know it
or you don't but the truth is that you
can prepare for it just like any of the
other sections in this section you'll be
presented with a paragraph that's
describing a scenario or situation that
would either be likely topping out your
university or in a clinical setting like
Awards in a hospital then you'll be
asked to assess different important
factors relating to this scenario or
which behaviors would be correct to
carry out if you were in that situation
so now that we know the five sections
that the you contest is actually testing
let's talk about how we can actually
prepare for the you contest now that you
can test despite what you've heard or
what you've been told is 100% something
that you can prepare for and you can
prepare for it through lots of practice
I can't stress this enough I genuinely
believe that practice is the number one
thing that is going to correlate with a
good score on the UK test the more
questions you do the more you'll get
exposed to the types of questions that
get asked on the test and so the better
you'll be able to answer them in the
future on top of that the UK is a
time-based test which means that for
some of the questions you have maybe
even 14 seconds to answer you don't have
all that much time and figuring out that
timing is something that takes a lot of
practice and is really important that
you learn to master early on I'll be
posting plenty more you cat videos over
the coming months this summer to help
you guys prepare for each of the
sections abstract reasoning quantitative
reasoning verbal reasoning situational
judgment and decision making I always
advocate to do absolutely as much
practice as you can and the best way to
do this is to use an online question
banks such as the one provided by
medified they are an online you can
question Bank which provide over 10,000
practice questions over eight full mock
tests and over 18 mini mock tests trust
me that is plenty of resources and so
much practice for you to do they have a
lot of features built into their online
question banks such as being able to
track your score over time being able to
compare how you are doing against other
applicants who are preparing for the you
contest I'll leave a link to their
website in the description down below
feel free to click on that link and
check out what they have to offer if you
want to follow me on Instagram to get a
more personal look into my life as a
medical student under researcher you can
do so at this link
here don't forget to like this video and
subscribe to this channel if you want to
see more you can and medical school
related content from me that's it from
me guys I hope you're having a wonderful
day happy practicing happy studying and
I'll see you in the next video peace